sample-DAS.md, before:

---
title: "Data Availavility Statement"
subtitle: "Social Science Reproduction Platform"
output:
  html_document: default
  pdf_document: default
---


<!--
https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/data/data-code-policy

The data availability statement shall provide detailed information on how, where, and under what conditions an independent researcher can access the original source data, as well as author-generated derivative data, and must be explicit and accurate about any restrictions, requirements, payments, and processing delays. The data availability statement shall provide information to assure the reader that the data are available for a sufficiently long period of time.
-->

This template is meant to guide original authors and reproducers in assessing the degree to which a study provides information on access to proprietary or sensitive data. Please fill in the following form for each confidential data source. If this is part of SSRP reproduction, please use your completed form to inform your subjective assessment on whether there are instructions to access data and if those instructions are partial or complete. 


## Location  
  
  
- [ ] **Institution:** 

- [ ] **URL:**

**Contact information**

- [ ] *Generic email:*   

- [ ] *Specific contact* 
    - *Name:*  
    - *Title:*  
    - *Department:*  
    - *Email:*  
    - *Phone number:* 

# Conditions of access  


- [ ] **Restrictions:** `[e.g., On site only, Cold rooms, Certified locations]`

- [ ] **Requirements:** `[e.g., nationality, security clearance, employees only access]` 

- [ ] **Fees:** `[e.g., application fees, data purchase]` 

- [ ] **Processing time:** `[e.g., from first request to first data access it took 15 months]`

- [ ] **Guaranteed availability until:** `[e.g., Data provider agreed to ensure access until 2025]` 

- [ ] **Type of data:** 
  - [ ] Raw data only 
  - [ ] Analysis data only
  - [ ] Raw and analysis data

# Metadata for each data file

Provide a list of the files required from this data source in order to reproduce the results from the original study. If possible apply a hash function to each data to obtain a unique identifier of that version of the data. 


| File name | Size (Mb) | Format | Description | Unique ID (optional) |
|-----------|-----------|--------|-------------|-----------------|
|  `raw_data1.csv `  | 123     |    CSV     |  Demographics raw data  |  `156a5e19b...`  |           
|  `raw_data3.json ` |  1441     |    JSON     |  Income raw data  |`244h7e19b...`      |       
|  `... ` |  ...     |    ...     |  ...  |   `...`   |

# Additional materials

- [ ] **Sample documentation:** `[e.g., Data Use Agreements (DUAs), Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs), contracts.]`

Commit message:

updated DAS form to reflect last coments from Ted and Lars
@abogdanoski please take a look

sample-DAS.md, after:

---
title: "Data Availavility Statement"
subtitle: "Social Science Reproduction Platform"
date: "4/30/2021"
output:
  pdf_document: default
  html_document: default
---


<!--
https://www.aeaweb.org/journals/data/data-code-policy

The data availability statement shall provide detailed information on how, where, and under what conditions an independent researcher can access the original source data, as well as author-generated derivative data, and must be explicit and accurate about any restrictions, requirements, payments, and processing delays. The data availability statement shall provide information to assure the reader that the data are available for a sufficiently long period of time.
-->

This template is meant to guide original authors and reproducers in assessing the degree to which a study provides information on access to proprietary or sensitive data. Please fill in the following form for each confidential data source. If this is part of a [SSRP reproduction](https://www.socialsciencereproduction.org), note that this form can be used in two stages: 

 - **Assessment stage:** use this form to systematically assess the information provided by the authors of the study in the original reproduction package. Then use this form to inform your subjective assessment on whether there are instructions to access data and if those instructions are partial or complete. 
 - **Improvement stage:** use this form to identify specific pieces of information that you added during the improvement stage. Make sure to distinguished   


- [ ] SSRP reproduction
    - [ ] **Assessment** of original materials
    - [ ] **Improvement** suggested by reproducer
    

# Location  

- [ ] **Institution:** 

- [ ] **URL:**

**Contact information**

- [ ] *Generic email:*   

- [ ] *Specific contact* 
    - *Name:*  
    - *Title:*  
    - *Department:*  
    - *Email:*  
    - *Phone number:* 

- [ ] **Last verified on date:**

# Conditions of access  


- [ ] **Restrictions:** `[e.g., On site only, Cold rooms, Certified locations]`

- [ ] **Requirements:** `[e.g., nationality, security clearance, employees only access]` 

- [ ] **Fees:** `[e.g., application fees, data purchase]` 

- [ ] **Processing time:** `[e.g., from first request to first data access it took 15 months]`

- [ ] **Guaranteed availability until:** `[e.g., Data provider agreed to ensure access until 2025]` 

- [ ] **Type of data:** 
  - [ ] Raw data only 
  - [ ] Analysis data only
  - [ ] Raw and analysis data

- [ ] **Last verified on date:**

# Metadata for each data file

Provide a list of the files required from this data source in order to reproduce the results from the original study. If possible apply a hash function to each data to obtain a unique identifier of that version of the data. 


| File name | Size (Mb) | Format | Description | Unique ID (optional) |
|-----------|-----------|--------|-------------|-----------------|
|  `raw_data1.csv `  | 123     |    CSV     |  Demographics raw data  |  `156a5e19b...`  |           
|  `raw_data3.json ` |  1441     |    JSON     |  Income raw data  |`244h7e19b...`      |       
|  `... ` |  ...     |    ...     |  ...  |   `...`   |


- [ ] **Last access date:**


# Additional materials

- [ ] **Sample documentation:** `[e.g., Data Use Agreements (DUAs), Memorandums of Understanding (MOUs), contracts.]`

- [ ] **Notes: **
