
# Structure of the Reproduction Activity
1 - Read the paper and identify main causal claims (10%)  

2 - Conduct reproduction: (up to 60%)  
  - 2.1 - Assessing computational reproducibility of [all | main] output of the paper.
  Review and classify the replication materials: data (raw and analytic) and code
  (cleaning and analysis). Assess current category of computational reproducibility.
      - List all raw data sets as described in the paper (for example "CPS March 2018 from CEPR") and, if available, match with the filename in the reproducibility package (`cepr_march_2018.dta`).   
      - Draw diagrams from output to raw data sources  

            table 1
              └───[code] formatting_table1.R
                  ├───output1_part1.txt  
                  |   └───[code] output_table1.do           
                  |       └───[data] analysis_data01.csv
                  |          └───[code] data_cleaning01.R
                  |             └───[data] survey_01raw.csv
                  └───output1_part2.txt  
                      └───[code] output_table2.do           
                          └───[data] analysis_data02.csv
                             └───[code] data_cleaning02.R
                                └───[data] admin_01raw.csv
      - Assess the current [level](README.md#levels-of-computational-reproducibility) of computational reproducibility of each output     

            | output_name | level | name_description_of_missing_files |
            |-------------|-------|-----------------------------------|
            | table 1     | 4     |        ADD EXAMPLES               |
            | figure 1    | 7     |                                   |
            | inline 1    | 5     |                                   |
            | ...         | ...   | ...                               |

  - 2.2 - Improve the current computational reproducibility of the paper AQUI VOY
       - Obtaining data/code
       - Creating code
       - Debugging code
       - Overall quality improvement (folders, LP, OS)
  - 2.3 - Identify all possible analytical choices

3 - Test the robustness of results to alternative (sensible) specifications (at least 30%)
  - Identify sensible analytical choices
  - Sample from sensible analytical choices and re-run: report how much do results change as fraction of standard deviations.

# Final products
 -  One-page introduction describing why you chose this paper
 -  Two-page summary of paper
 -  2 Completed surveys:  
       - i  - General information about the paper and specific
      information about output to reproduce.  
       - ii - Assessment of how (computationally) reproducible is the paper;
       description of improvements to its reproducibility; record of all the
       analytical choices identified in the exercise.
 -  ACRE report card with all the improvements that were created by the researcher reproducing the paper. The list of improvements will be made public and original authors will receive a copy of the report card. The option of anonymity will be provided to the researchers reproducing the paper.     

 - New Readme file (autogenerated).
 - Data with all analytical choices identified.
 - ?? Narrated description of improvements to original CR of the paper, assessment of robustness of results. Lessons from the exercise and possible future extensions.
